and from Amazon to your local grocer US
businesses are changing strategies to
handle increased demand during the
corona virus pandemic business and
technology correspondent Jolene Kent
joins us now from Los Angeles Joe we're
certainly practicing the social
distancing how are you doing doing well
now Amazon we talked about they're
hiding a hundred thousand workers amid
the crisis here problem is they're gonna
be in warehouses what can workers do to
avoid getting infected inside those
warehouses yeah that's a great question
so amazon wants to hire a hundred
thousand workers inside warehouses and
also delivery drivers and as you can
imagine there's a lot that goes into
delivery that could put a person at risk
so what Amazon is telling me is they're
trying to practice that public health
that hygiene that that social distancing
we were just talking about making sure
they're sanitizing their warehouses but
beyond that they're also trying to focus
on what customers really need as they
try to step up and meet this big demand
for all the household products you're
looking for the baby products the stuff
to keep your home clean and your car
clean and so what they're doing is they
are no longer accepting certain
third-party sellers items the new stuff
that would normally come into their
warehouse instead they're focusing on
just those products but it's a really
big problem in Amazon continues to say
the same thing we're just trying to keep
things clean and sanitized and efficient
so that we can keep on moving ahead but
we did ask them you know in case say the
state of California goes into a shelter
and play situation like they have in San
Francisco is an Amazon warehouse
essential in the way that a grocery
store is essential and they have not
answered us on that front yet and you
bring up a good point about the delivery
workers because they're getting in and
out of trucks they're touching a lot of
doorknobs you're interacting with
strangers when they hand the package
over what can they do specifically to
avoid getting kovat 19:00 well the good
news is on the consumer side there are
ways to elect for contact free delivery
and so there's ways for you you can
elect to have your package through a
bunch of different delivery services
left on your doorstep or left outside of
course you can elect these different
options in different ways not just
through Amazon but other delivery
programs but there's certainly a lot of
concern
around this and we've been talking to
you a few retail e-commerce giants
beyond just Amazon and they're trying to
provide everything that they can when it
comes to the sanitizing wipe and the
hand sanitizer to keep everyone feeling
safe and practicing safe hygiene and you
know the new normal over the last few
days maybe in the last week or so are a
lot of empty store shelves is there a
real risk of a food supply shortage or
people just hoarding is it wise for them
to hoard well what we're seeing right
now is everyone's panic buying right
you're going to the store you're seeing
the long lines there's no sliced bread
there's no milk there's no toilet paper
but the good news is that we see this
surgeon buying but all of the major
grocery store chains are telling us
there's plenty of food the real issue is
the supply chain and logistics so when
people see panic buying they panic buy
that creates a double whammy effect the
miss store shelves are empty so a lot of
these grocery stores are having to cut
back their hours say clothing a little
earlier opening opening a little later
in the morning so they can deploy their
staff to restock the shelves of course
there's the fact there's delivery from
the warehouses there's that aspect of it
and I know Vicki mentioned earlier a lot
of these grocery stores are hiring up
and they're hiring on this spot in some
cases just to get enough people there to
handle this urgent demand in fact I was
just talking to a cashier last week
before this got super super intense here
in LA and she said that it was Wednesday
night right after President Trump spoke
and she told me this is bigger than
Thanksgiving and Christmas and that was
a week ago
you know Stephanie talked about big
businesses and how they have that
cushion to keep things going through
this time period small businesses a lot
of people are concerned about that
especially the mom-and-pop type
businesses how can people help keep
their local small businesses thriving or
at least alive through this well yeah
it's a very tough situation we're
hearing from a lot of small businesses
that they are just ceasing operations
but the good news is if you are say a
coffee shop or a small restaurant what
you can do as a customer is you can go
and order online or order by phone pick
up in person or have it delivered
patronize those institutions and those
businesses because that's really where
you know the margins are so thin when it
comes to the restaurant industry
surviving month-to-month can be
difficult and then you throw on top of
that the corona virus pandemic and it
just becomes impossible but we do know
that some of the retailers the bigger
names they're trying to set an example
by shutting down and also paying their
workers that's not as easy for a small
business it's very difficult to do that
so there have been some federal measures
proposed to provide some support you
also have companies like Facebook that
are stepping in trying to provide small
business grants to make sure that there
is some money that can sustain some of
these small businesses that maybe sell
on Facebook marketplace but in the case
of Amazon as they stopped taking new
products from third-party sellers that
is going to result and we've heard
reports of this we've heard from some of
the third-party sellers that they're
worried about are they gonna have to lay
off workers and Joe do you think there's
gonna be a lot of these small businesses
that are simply going to end up going
out of business especially this thing
goes on you know sometimes we're saying
45 days sometimes they're saying July or
August yes I do we've been talking with
a lot of Chinese restaurants that were
originally affected when coronavirus
took hold in China first before the
first cases were declared here in the US
and in California and what they've
started to realize is some of them are
closing permanently because business was
already getting a little bit slower
maybe they were a larger restaurant with
a larger staff and so we do see some of
the restaurant economics if you will
playing out here and we will see that on
the retail side you've got big companies
like Macy's and Bloomingdale's closing
their doors temporarily those are
retailers that are already struggling
it's very difficult to pay rent when it
comes to this retail apocalypse we've
been covering forever so you may see
some acceleration I guess when it comes
to some of these retailers struggling or
closing up permanently and that also
goes for restaurants and a lot of your
small businesses it's a very very
difficult time and Joe we always talk
about blunting the curve when it comes
to the cases of Crona buyer sounds like
it's the same thing we need to do when
it comes to these small businesses but
Jolene Kent thank you very much for
helping us sort all this out hey NBC
News viewers thanks for checking out our
YouTube channel subscribe by clicking on
that button down here and click on any
of the videos over here
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching